APPENDICES57AUTHOR’S PROFILE85LIST OF TABLESTablesTitlePageTable 1: Formula of thermophysical properties for hybrid nanofluid (Jusoh et al., 2024)42Table 2: Formula of thermophysical characteristics for hybrid nanofluid (Aziz et al., 2021)42LIST OF FIGURESFiguresTitlePageFigure 1: Heat transfer methods17Figure 3: Colloidal Suspension of Hybrid Nanoparticles19Figure 4: Boundary layer flow in pipe23Figure 5: The Schematic of Flat Solar Collector25LIST OF PLATESPlatesTitlePageNo table of figures entries found.LIST OF SYMBOLSSymbolsANumber of PLS or PCA components in the model and the number of selected latent variable in the modelaNumber of the PLS or PCA componentbPLS regression coefficient bNumber of blocks (b=1,2,3.....,K)CCoarse APM blockCpPooled covariance matrix for the two classesCgCovariance matrix for class gLIST OF ABBREVIATIONSAbbreviationsPCAPrincipal Component AnalysisLIST OF NOMENCLATURENomenclaturesAAmplitude Ratio, (No Units)CCentroid of pipe, inchesINTRODUCTIONResearch Background Heat TransferHeat is a process of energy transfer from one system to another (Rennie & Law, 2019). As it is a transient phenomenon, it can only be identified as it crossed a boundary between multiple systems that have different temperature to achieve equilibrium (Escudier & Atkins, 2019). From a mathematical perspective, heat Q is understood as a manifestation of internal energy where in a medium with specific heat capacity c, density ?, at temperature T, reside in a region R, . In that it is energy, with the unit joule J. Here, heat is defined as a manifestation of internal energy distributed throughout a medium.(The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Mathematics, 2021). Heat here is framed as an internal state function. The region R must be well defined, and the variables must be sufficiently continuous. Since the thermal equilibrium assumption need to be implemented, each differential volume element must be small enough to assume a uniform temperature. Mass density ? relates spatial volume to matter content, specific heat capacity c encodes the proportionality between temperature and internal energy,  temperature T represent the state variable capturing thermal intensity, and spatial domain R is bounded region within which the energy is considered. This formulation provides a bridge between microscopic thermodynamics and macroscopic energy accounting.Internal energy U is defined as the total of kinetic energy of the atoms and molecules in a system and the potential energy of their mutual interactions. It is not energy of the whole system itself, hence doesn’t include nuclear and inter-atomic/extra-molecular energies. Absolute value of the internal energy can’t be measured directly. The focus for this subject is on the change of the energy ?U (Rennie & Law, 2019).Thermodynamics discussion requires a clear distinction between the term heat Q and internal energy U. According to the first law of thermodynamics, they relate within a system by the definition of a change in internal energy ?U=Q-W where Q is energy interaction as heat occurring into the system and W is work done by the system on its surroundings. Heat is a path-dependent process and not a state function. An accurate approach to describe heat is in a standard molar (with unit kJ mol-1) enthalpy change for the process under consideration. (Rennie & Law, 2019). The analogy is like balance in bank account (internal energy), deposit (heat), and withdrawal for bill payment (work done).The temperature T(x,t) in a uniform solid medium, as governed by the heat equation, satisfies the parabolic partial differential equation ?T?t=k?2T?x2, where k represents the thermal diffusivity of the medium (The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Mathematics, 2021). This is a reduced form of conservative of energy law under a specific assumption of homogeneity (the quality or state of being all the same or all of the same kind), no internal heat generation, and constant thermal diffusivity k. This is only applicable for heat transfer that only occur via conduction. The validity an dintegrity of this heat equation depends on the invariants of Faurier’s Law (heat flux is propotional to the negative gradient of temperature, ), energy conservation, and linearity (nonlinear cases like turbulent flows, radiation dominance will break the model). The spatial Laplacian ?2T?x2 encodes spatial curvature of temperature, determining how heat “flows” from hotter to colder regions with its neighbouring environment. This provides a predictive model for how heat diffuses through solids. The structure shows that thermal evolution is irreversible and dissipative, which describe the Second Law of ThermodynamicsPhysically, heat transfer is the transfer of energy between multiple systems because of difference in temperature (Rennie & Law, 2019). In the sense of mechanical engineering, heat transfer (also known as heat transport, heat transmission, and heat flow) is the transport of energy within or between object or fluid. There are 3 basic modes of the transportation: conduction, convection, and radiation (Escudier & Atkins, 2019).In conclusion, heat transfer is the process by which energy moves across system boundaries due to temperature differences, acting as a path-dependent interaction that alters a system’s internal energy, occurring only when crossing between systems and manifested through conduction, convection, or radiation.Figure 1: Heat transfer methodsThermal RadiationRadiation is energy travelling in the form of electromagnetic waves or photons (Rennie & Law, 2019).Thermal ConvectionConvection is process by which heat is transferred through the fluid itself. Natural convection is defined by the movement due to gravity; the hot part of the fluid expands, becomes less dense, and is displaced by the colder denser part of the fluid as this drops below it. This is the process that occurs in most domestic hot water. In some modern systems, where small-bore pipes are used or it is inconvenient to place the cylinder above the boiler, the circulation between boiler and hot-water cylinder relies upon a pump. This is an example of forced convection, where hot fluid is transferred from one region to another by a pump or fan (Rennie & Law, 2019).Thermal ConductionThermal conduction is the transmission of heat through a substance. In gases and most liquids, the energy is transmitted mainly by collisions between atoms and molecules with those possessing lower kinetic energy. In solid and liquid metals, heat conduction is predominantly by migration of fast-moving electrons, followed by collisions between these electrons and ions. In solid insulators the absence of free electrons restrict heat transfer to the vibrations of atoms and molecules within crystal lattices (Rennie & Law, 2019).Hybrid NanofluidThere are 2 states of motion studied in fluid mechanics which is statics and dynamics. Fluid statics is concerned with forces and pressures applied on idle liquids and gases while fluid dynamics study this condition on the fluid at motions (hydrodynamics for liquids, aerodynamics for gases)(Rennie & Law, 2019).When a fluid flowing in medium with dimensions below 100nm, it is called nanofluidic, while nanofluid represent a colloidal suspension of nanoparticles in a base liquid (Escudier & Atkins, 2019). It is widely proven that nanofluids significantly improve thermal conductivity performance. Earlier studies shows that this is the case due to the improvement in heat transmission capabilities. This interest cause researchers to further the study on this matter with the exploration on dispersing multiple types of nanoparticles, hence the creation of “hybrid nanofluid”. The unique properties of different nanoparticles interact synergistically, enhancing heat transfer performance by complementing each other's functions and compensating for individual limitations (Jusoh et al., 2024; Zainal et al., 2024).  As hybrid composite is a composite reinforced by two or mor
